---
title: Maker
date: 2014-03-19 05:00 UTC
tags: maker, oldways, beginning, gSchool, Ruby, nature, technology
---

I like making things.

There is something amazing about taking raw materials and putting them together in certain ways and orders and creating
something new. Or old, but yours.

The things we use and touch can be understood. If we listen, we can learn from them. Touch something that stirs your heart,
and listen. Think of your human sisters and brothers who crafted that beauty, the plants and animals and minerals that came
together to sing their song for you. Listen for that song, not only in the land of nature, but also in the land of machines.
Listen for that song, not only in the land of machines, but also in the land of nature. If that song is sour, what can
we do to sweeten the song?

I have traversed some of the old ways, lightly, lovingly, and the old human ways and songs reverberate in my life. The thread
of our culture and lineage is beautiful, fascinating, and __shared__ by __all of us__ earthling humans. Our old true culture is the
same... edible plants, hunting and trapping, traditional medicine, tracking, shelter, fire-making, tanning, baskets, love, family, children,
friends. We are the same, our roots are from one tree.

I have traversed some of the new ways, lightly, lovingly, and the new human ways and songs reverberate in my life. Our human
world is becoming one again. We can share, collaborate, communicate with almost anyone daily, if not instantly. We are making
things that can help each other learn, grow, love, connect... protect each other. Support each other. Make our lives better.

Sometimes there is pressure to 'pick a side', nature or technology. There are no sides. We are the caretakers of nature,
our collection can make landscapes more diverse, strong, resilient... if we choose to hear what nature needs. We are also makers.
We have created so much with our little tools, with help from our lovely machines. We must not choose a side, we must sing
with everyone, we must sing all the songs as sweetly as we can.

I am learning to hear a new song. I started gSchool just over two weeks ago. I am lucky, in Boulder many people do not choose
sides. My instructors resonate with the song of the wild, and they resonate with the song of machines. We are learning Ruby.